#### 4.4.3	Specific settings: ‘regions’, ‘parameters’, ‘reading order’, ‘settings’

- '**Regions**': In accordance with the LAREX concept, each scan (that is, each book page) is composed of several, distinct layout elements, e.g. main text (‘paragraph’), title, marginalia, page number, etc. Thus, LAREX requires that corresponding ‘regions’ be assigned to each of these layout elements. This assigning task must be consistently performed throughout the entire work, in preparation for further steps as well as for the actual recognition of the displayed content! Besides a small number of pre-set and predefined layout regions – for instance ‘image’ (graphics such as woodcuts and ornate initials), ‘paragraph’ (main text) or ‘page_number’ – the user can define and add further book-specific layout regions under ‘create’. Not only can the user change a region’s colour, but they can also define the minimum size of a textual/graphical page element which they wish to recognize as such (under ‘minSize’). The layout region thus defined can be added to the book-specific list by clicking on ‘save’.

<pre>

BILD

</pre>

fig. 16. Range of options under ‘Regions’.
 
- Moreover, the ‘regions’ feature enables the user to assign particular layout regions to a fixed and predefined location on the scan which will then be applied to the following scans. Provided a page’s layout is repeated throughout the entire book, the user can generate something of a layout template in order to improve segmentation and reduce the number of necessary corrections later on. In order to adjust the position of these layout regions to a book’s specific layout, simply display the layout region’s current position and adjust it by selecting the scanned page’s regions.

<pre>

BILD

</pre>

fig. 17. Layout regions display and template.

Once a new region has been defined, its position on the page can be established by clicking on ‘Region’ → ‘Create a region rectangle (Shortcut: 1)’, an option located in the toolbar. This can be undone or changed at any time. Please note that the category ‘images’ can’t be assigned to a layout region on the page.

<pre>

BILD

</pre>

fig. 18. Defining new layout regions.

All things considered, it isn’t always advisable to assign fixed positions to all layout regions for an entire book; if the position of certain regions such as chapter titles, mottos, page number or signature marks on the different pages is inconsistent, assigning predefined positions will lead to recognition errors. In this case, manually verifying and correcting these layout elements afterwards is the more practical approach. If the user needs to delete a layout region’s position, they can simply select the region in question and press the ‘delete’ key.
 
- '**Parameters**': Allows to define overall parameters of image and text recognition. Taking the time to pre-set certain book-specific parameters is recommended when working with an inconsistent layout, particularly that of early modern prints. These often feature great divergences of word and line spacing. To avoid a narrowly spaced group of lines from being recognised as one cohesive textual element, the ‘text dilation’ feature enables you to control and define the text’s degree of dilation in the x- and y-direction. This will enable the software to recognise originally too close word/line spacing or to recognise widely spaced passages as one cohesive element. We recommend trying and testing in order to find the settings best suited to a particular book.

<pre>

BILD

</pre>

fig. 19. Parameters settings.

- '**Settings**': Under ‘Settings’ you can save the previously selected displaying and segmentation options as well as loading them anew after an interruption in segmentation (buttons ‘save settings’ and ‘load settings’). Saving will generate an XML file which you will need to select when loading the settings (click on ‘load settings’, a new window will open; select file in question and open it). An additional feature will enable you to re-load previous pages’ segmentation results if you wish to view them again: simply go to ‘advanced settings’ and click on ‘load now’. This will load any previously saved XML file containing that page’s segmentation results.

<pre>

BILD

</pre>

Abb. 20: Settings.

- '**Reading Order**': In order for the correct order of a page’s textual elements to be taken into account in all steps following segmentation, it is necessary to define these elements’ ‘reading order’ beforehand. This can be done automatically provided a book’s layout be relatively clear and simple. However, should you be working with a more complex layout structure, we recommend you proceed manually. Simply select ‘auto generate a reading order’ or ‘set a reading order’ under toolbar item ‘Order’.

<pre>

BILD

</pre>

fig. 21. Reading order selection in toolbar

By clicking on the auto reading order button, a list of all the page’s textual elements will appear in the right sidebar (under ‘reading order’), sorted from top to bottom. On the other hand, if you wish to manually establish reading order, you will need to click on each of the page’s textual elements, in the correct order (see below), after which this reading order will appear in the aforementioned list. All elements of the reading order can be rearranged with a drag-and-drop or deleted by clicking on the corresponding recycle bin icon. As with everything in LAREX, the reading order can always be changed before saving the final segmentation results.

