## 4.	Workflow
In general, OCR4all provides two different versions of an OCR workflow. They are widely different, particularly when it comes to the workload they require and, inevitably, the verifiability of partial outcomes and subsequent quality of the generated data. Both will be outlined and categorized in the following.

### 4.1	Process Flow
This variant (main menu ☰ → Process Flow) allows for a virtually automated workflow. It merely requires the initial pick of the intended scans (sidebar on the right) and subsequent selection of the individual processing steps the user wishes to apply to the chosen data (fig. 5).

<pre>

BILD

</pre>

fig. 6. 'Process flow' Subcomponents.

In order to complete the process, choose an appropriate OCR model (or model package, composed of five individual models working simultaneously and in concert – see chapter 4.7). Simply go to ‘setting’ → ‘recognition’ → ‘general’ (as illustrated in fig. 6) and choose from the list of available OCR models (‘line recognition models’ – ‘available’).

<pre>

BILD

</pre>

fig. 7. Selection of an appropriate OCR model.
 
Although it is generally possible to choose more than one recognition model, this is only recommended if the scans in question contain more than one printing type.

Finally, start the ‘process flow’ by clicking on ‘execute’. The current stage of this automated processing is translated into the progress bars and can be reviewed at any time. After the workflow’s completion, the results can be verified under the menu item ‘ground truth production’ (☰) .

<pre>

BILD

</pre>

fig. 8. Individual lines with their corresponding OCR results.

If the OCR’s line-based results immediately meet the desired or required accuracy of recognition, final results can be generated (TXT and/or PageXML) under menu item ‘result generation’. Were those results not to meet the user’s requirements, they can be once more corrected before the final generation (see chapter 4.8).

Aside this ‘process flow’, OCR4all additionally provides the option of a sequential workflow which enables the user to independently execute the software’s individual submodules (see fig. 1) and their components, thus ensuring the proper correctness and quality of the generated data. Considering that these submodules are built on one another, the sequential workflow seems to be the most adequate choice when working with early modern prints and their intricate, complex layout.

We recommend first-time users execute the sequential workflow at least once (as described below) in order to understand the submodules’ operating principles.
