#### 4.4.5	Additional processing options

OCR4all also provides the following scan processing options:
- While deleting layout elements or joining separate ones to form one, single region, you can select all relevant elements simultaneously by pressing and holding 'Shift' key and drawing a rectangle around the entire region using your mouse. Relevant regions must be located entirely inside the rectangle. Once done, selected region will be surrounded by a blue frame.
- 'Select contours to combine (with 'C') to segments (see function combine)' (shortcut: 6): this tool is perfect for reaching optimal segmentation results even when working with scans featuring a densely packed and detailed print layout. The basic idea is that layout elements only be delimited by the contours of the individual letters/pictures they are composed of, thus solving the problems created by manual segmentation such as excessively broad margins, which can in turn hamper the OCR performance. To use this feature, click on the relevant button (toolbar) or use shortcut 6. All components of the scan recognized as layout elements will be coloured blue.


<pre>

BILD

</pre>

fig. 30. Showing contours.

Select individual letters or even parts of letter by clicking on them.

<pre>

BILD

</pre>

fig. 31. Selecting contours.

You can also apply your selection to an individual group of letters, entire words or text lines, sections of a layout element (see above: ‘Shift’ + selection with rectangle). Use shortcut C after selection in order to include all selected items – be they letters, words, lines, etc. – in one, new layout element, regardless of the layout region they had previously belonged to. This new element’s edges will be far more precise that those of an automatically generated one, enabling a particularly accurate segmentation superior to that of standardised tools.

<pre>

BILD

</pre>

fig. 32. Aggregating selected items to create new element.
 
Save new element by clicking on ‘Segment’. New element can be renamed as described above.

<pre>

BILS

</pre>

fig. 33. Typifying new layout element.

- **'Combine selected segments or contours'** (shortcut: C): In order to combine several, distinct layout elements into a new element, select the entire region in question (see above) and click on corresponding button (toolbar) or use shortcut C.
- **'Fix/unfix segments, for it to persist a new auto segmentation'** (Shortcut: F): This function enables you to fix an element in one place beyond your next segmentation rounds. Mark element in question by clicking on it, then use shortcut F or corresponding button in toolbar. Fixed, i. e. pinned elements will appear surrounded by a dotted line. If you wish to cancel fixation, simply repeat the operation.
- **Zoom:** Use mouse wheel to zoom in and out of display. Use space key to reset display to its original size.
- When working with a very complex and intricate layout, **targeted interventions** can help increase the precision and quality of segmentation results. The contours of all layout elements (recognized as such) consist in fact of many individual lines, separated by dots.


<pre>

BILD

</pre>

fig. 34. Layout element contours.

- These tiny dots can be moved, individually or in groups, e.g. to avoid collision between different layout elements in a dense setting. Use a left click-and-hold to move a dot, click on the line to create a new dot, use 'delete' key to delete a dot.
- **Load results:** a scan’s existing segmentation results will be sourced from OCR4all folder structure and directly loaded to LAREX.

