### 4.6	Recognition

**Input:** Text lines and one or more OCR models
**Output:** OCR-output in the form of text for each of the PageXML files at hand
- This step is where the actual text recognition takes place based on the individual lines and textual layout elements identified during line segmentation (see above).
- Select menu item 'Recognition': in the right sidebar, you will only find your document's scans (or rather printed pages) for which all OCR pre-processing steps have been completed, by which we mean all previously explained steps - bar 'noise removal'. Please select the scans for which you wish to produce an OCR text.
- Go to 'line recognition models' (under 'available') and select all models or model packages relevant to the typographical recognition of your text (e.g. early modern/historical Gothic type, italic/cursive type, historical Antiqua etc.). **We expressly advise the use of a model package, where five models simultaneously work and interact with each other!** This is much preferable to using only one model at a time. You can select all models you wish to add to your package by clicking on each of them - they will automatically be added to the 'selected' category. When dealing with a large amount of models, you can find them by using the 'search' function.


<pre>

BILD

</pre>

fig. 36. Selection of model package for text recognition.

- You likely won't need to adjust any of the advanced settings.
- Click on 'execute' and oversee the text recognition progress on the console.
- Once recognition is finished, you will be able to view all results under menu item 'ground truth production'.

