#### 4.4.2	Overview and toolbar

The left sidebar displays all previously selected scans. Colour-coded markings visible in the bottom right corner indicate the current stage of each scan’s processing:

- Orange exclamation mark: “there is no segmentation for this page” – no current segmentation results for this page
- Orange warning sign: “current segmentation may be unsaved”
- Green floppy disk: “segmentation was saved for this session” – segmentation results have been saved as an XML file
- Green padlock: “there is a segmentation for this page on the server” – individual previously saved segmentation results (c.) have been marked as correct after completion of the entire document’s segmentation (see below).


<pre>

BILD

</pre>
 
fig. 13. Different display modes.

- With the buttons '0' and '1' it is possible to switch between the binarized (black and white) and the normalized (grayscale) display mode. This selection is noted for all remaining pages of the project. It is possible to change the display mode again at any time.
- In the topbar, you will find different tools and tool categories pertaining to navigation and image processing:


<pre>

BILD

</pre>
 
fig. 14. Different menu items in the toolbar.

- **Open a different book:** No settings adjustments necessary for all LAREX versions as integrated in OCR4all.
- **Image Zoom:** Enables general settings for image or scan display, such as zoom options. However, these can also be adjusted with your mouse and/or touchpad: shift the displayed page by left click-and-holding and moving your mouse; zoom using mouse wheel or touchpad.
- **Undo** und **Redo:** Undo or redo last user action. Even common key combinations are possible (i.g. CTRL + Z for undo last action).
- **Delete selected items:** Delete currently selected region.
- **RoI, Region, Segment, Order:** In addition to the right sidebar, these are the different options for processing and segmenting scans. While the options featured in the toolbar generally pertain to the current scan’s processing (see below), the right sidebar features project-wide options across all scans.

 
<pre>

BILD

</pre>
  
fig. 15. Right sidebar’s settings.

However, the latter can be amended, changed or adjusted at any time. In this case, we recommend saving all previously carried-out settings, whether they be related to recognition parameters (‘parameters’) or to document-specific layout elements (‘regions’) previously determined by the user, in ‘settings’. This will ensure these particular settings are applied the next time you work with this tool, enabling you to work with document-specific settings from then on.
